.. _walkthrough:

Walkthrough
============

If you are a first time user to Gbiv or need a little refresher, below we have provided a small tutorial to get you more acquainted with the application.

To begin this tutorial, simply visit Gbiv on the web at the URL (https://skumperdump.pythonanywhere.com/)--please excuse the URL name haha. Gbiv is compatible with all major web browsers.


Step 1: Navigating the Page
----------------------------

Once you enter the URL for Gbiv into your browser, you will be brought to the main page which also acts as the upload page for Gbiv's primary functionality. At the top of your browser you will see a lavender navigation bar that has Gbiv's logo as well as a list of all pages on the site. You can visit any of these pages by clicking the name displayed at the top. For more information on what each section offers you can visit the "The Site" section of this user documentation (:numref:`site`).


Step 2: Selecting an Image
---------------------------

To access the main functionality of Gbiv, you will need an image to upload that is formatted as a .png, .jpg, or .jpeg (as mentioned in :numref:`input`) and saved somewhere on your local machine. 

To begin the upload process simply click on the button that says "Choose File" on the main page. After this, you will be taken to a file explorer window specific to your operating system which will allow you to navigate to wherever your image is stored. Once you have selected the image you wish to upload, click "Open" to close the file selector tab and return to the website (NOTE: the exact text for the button to select the file may not be "Open" depending on the OS you are using).

Now the name of the image will be displayed next to the "Choose File" button. If you wish to change the image you have selected, simply click the "Choose File" button and repeat the process described above.


Step 3: Uploading the Image
----------------------------


Once you have selected the image you wish to input into Gbiv, the process of uploading is very straightforward. Simply click the button to the right of the your selected file name which reads "Upload." After pressing this button, the color analysis process will begin--please allow up to 20 seconds for this computation to complete. If it is taking too long, try resizing your photo and re-uploading--the smaller the file size, the faster the process will be.


Step 4: Viewing the Suggested Colors
-------------------------------------

After the color extraction and analysis computations have been completed, you will be re-directed to a page that displays your suggested palettes and related colors. At the top of the page, you can see the image you uploaded and below that there will be several categories of palettes and related colors.

Each palette is displayed as a rectangle that is divided into 4 horizontal bars that represent the 4 individual colors in the palette. To the right of these bars is the hex code that digitally represents the color shown.

The related colors are shown below the palettes. They are displayed as squares filled in with a single color and are also grouped logically based on their relation to the dominant color from the image.


Step 5: Exploring Further
---------------------------

If you would like to know more about the palettes and colors that have been recommended based off of the photo you uploaded, go over to the color theory page for a basic introduction to the science behind our color analysis.

If you are looking for palette inspiration, but don't have a specific photo to match with in mind: visit the "Sample Palettes" page to view some palettes that have been generated by Gbiv in the past.

If you would like to get in touch with the team behind Gbiv or are interested in the story behind our project, you can find what you need in the "About Us" page.